---
title: I'm calling it crow
date: "2026-02-20"
---

I'm calling it crow. this is the ACP agent core. I've got a whole plan of attack but the idea was I was having just absolutely miserable time dealing with litellm at work using anthropic models from behind a braintrust endpoint and how to define so litellm package wouldn't shit the bed and I was like bro I can write a react loop agent with FastMCP in like 300 lines of code I bet using FastMCP and OpenAI Python SDK and anyway I ended up with a really clean abstraction/modularization of the process that screamed "each thing to do with agent development, compaction, skills, prompts, persistence even, all of that is a callback mutating the state of the agent [what you just looked at across the three tables because we don't need to attach the full system prompt to each even in the wide event table because it obscures the real source of that session. we use unrendered template text to absolutely match the prompt. if it's new/doesn't match the existing UNRENDERED text of an existing prompt, we create a new prompt

so new datetime, new tools, new anything doesn't really matter as much as "did the template for displaying this change"

but yeah the idea is to Just Do It this weekend, cram as many features in there, get the MCP and the ACP synced up and emitting the right kind of outputs that get rendered beautifully to where you can't tell you're not using claude code, add in a bunch of configuration stuff


add in the fact that I can plug in a qwen3-next-local running locally and this thing FLYS and like it's all my own code pretty much. No I don't own the protocols, but I built the whole fucking thing. This is not just an endeavor of sovereignty or whatever (I sort of despise the whole concept now even though I'm actually a micronationalist because of how much it's been abused) but no like I think even outside of the trae solo clone ACP client I plan to build on top of this thing, there's a value add here.

I want people learning about it to fork crow-agent and realize that the big fancy agent framework with all of these huge varieties of how you can orchestrate agents and it's all available from any ACP client is overshadowed by the fact that it's basically a tutorial site for building your own agents through crow-acp's extension model so you want stateful agents? you want agents that execute julia? you want a 14 agent process of development with all custom MCPs and compaction style to suit your vibes, you can do that. we expose it all basically as code so you're jusing doing get/set on session data and have acess to a couple of endpoints inside the crow-acp core but all extensions do zero inheritance and extension of the actual crow-acp core. they just define callbacks that get inserted at predefined places and can do the traditional get/set and call the configured llm, create sessions/load session, things like that but the only thing flowing between extension and core is data. Might even work on a JSON-RPC schema based on MCP/ACP to fully decouple so you can build callbacks in rust
